To this point,
we have covered adding to the backlog, organizing the backlog, compared
the processes of planning and pulling from the backlog.
Now we will move onto comparing the differences with
how work in progress is handled.
So let's look at work in progress. With Agile Scrum
projects, they use the defined concept, as you know,
called sprints. A sprint can be of any length, but
it's usually about 2 or 3 weeks.
Whereas in Kanban, it is simply a series of continuous
steps in a value stream, no sprints, no timeboxing, just a smooth,
continuous flow.
Okay, let's go deeper.
Before there is a sprint, there are a few more upfront activities.
Typically, a product vision and roadmap is created.
Then the project may be laid out in releases with each
release covering a chunk of functionality,
which really is a chunk or subset of the overall backlog.
Then at the end of the project will be a project
retrospective and that is an Agile project.
Each release we comprise of multiple sprints and a
sprint will look something like this.
A sprint begins with Sprint planning and contains a series of daily work events,
followed by the Sprint demo, review, and retrospective.
All of that is a sprint.
You could see it has a nice structure and I think is well laid out too,
but it does have structure which can, on occasion,
work against itself.
Now let's take a deeper look at how Kanban manages its work in progress.
Here are the steps in a generalized Kanban value stream. You
will discuss and negotiate with your upstream partners about
the work you will receive.
Your upstream partners are providing requirements,
prioritization, and other project artifacts, such as
budgets and resources potentially as well.
This could be product owners, remember, I like that term, customers,
users, vendors, or any valued input entity.
Here is your value stream, and in this example,
I am showing a simplistic value stream composed of specify,
implement, and validate.
This is where you have control and influence over analysis,
design, coding, and testing.
Lastly,
your downstream partners are those that you will deliver your finished
products to such a software, of course. There may be other development
teams, operations, you know those who put things into production, or even
your own end users if it's a finished product. So as this bracket is
showing, the orange boxes are what is in your control and therefore in
your value stream.
No sprints, no releases, just a continuous flow.
Now I'll be using and building upon this simple,
basic value stream throughout this course.
Now let's discuss and compare and see what makes a good sprint
length, or another way to put it, what makes a good length of work
time before you re‑evaluate your work?
Okay, remember why Agile Scrum was so popular and is so popular?
It is because it solved so many issues and problems
with traditional waterfall projects.
By having short sprints,
you can be agile, you can make course corrections and produce
business values sooner and with much better quality.
I like Scrum and it has been successful for my teams, but
what is the right length of a sprint?
In a way,
the waterfall approach was one big sprint that lasts months or
even years in the old days, and with Agile Scrum,
we have a series of sprints.
Now I've seen sprints to be 2, 3, or even 4 weeks in length.
It seems that the shortest sprints are better than the longer sprints,
or at least they are to me.
And since you will have reduced lead times,
you can make course corrections and better satisfy your customer.
Well, then what about a 1‑week sprint or a 3‑day sprint?
So you probably see where I'm going with this. Even though
there are no sprints with Kanban, in a way, you could think of
Kanban as a series of 1‑day sprints, since in each day,
every daily stand up, you can make course corrections.
Think about it.
Why was 2 or 3 weeks generally chosen for a sprint over waterfall?
Because waterfall just did not work, the smaller the sprint,
the easier to make course corrections. Now Kanban just took it
a step further throughout the sprint and now you could make
course corrections daily if need be.
I really like that flexibility.
Let's compare the end events of work in progress.
Now, at the end of a sprint,
you will typically have a demonstration of the outcome of the sprint,
which is great, and you'll want your customer feedback.
Also, you will have a Sprint review where you review how that sprint went,
maybe how good you were able to complete your story points, and
things like that, and a Sprint retrospective where you might look at
the process of doing sprints like maybe having your standup at 8 AM,
instead of 9 AM, and choosing a better physical location or a better
video conferencing tool. With Kanban, it is simply a continuous flow,
daily demos, if needed,
and each day the progress will be reviewed, workflow issues discussed,
possibly corrected, and maybe even resources moved, and
daily process improvements can be proposed,
discussed, and decided upon immediately.
So process issues are discussed and corrected as
encountered and no waiting for the end of,
well, anything.
Let's recap work in progress. With sprints, you have fixed time periods
and it's a more rigid process structure, and again,
Scrum has been widely successful as it should be.
With Kanban, it is simply a continuous flow.
Kanban is more agile and adaptable to change.
Agile Scrum certainly made a great leap from waterfall or other
homegrown random approaches and is likely the most popular approach today in building software and systems.